[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Has it ever occurred to
you that you may be intuitive?
We all are according to Dr.
Mona Lisa Schulz, author
of "Awakening Intuition."
I am Marilyn McGuire.
And you are listening
to the Wisdom Channel.
We're talking with
Dr. Mona Lisa Schulz.
And you have written a book
called "Awakening Intuition."
You are a medical doctor,
and you have a PhD.
And you're talking
about intuition.
I find that very interesting.
Can you tell us?
>> Well, I think that
all of us have intuition.
It looks different.
I think it's like cars.
We all have different
makes, models, or years.
Our intuition is
different in the same way.
If we have a body, if we have a
brain, and you sleep at night,
last time I looked, you
have all those items.
Then by definition, you and
everyone else has intuition.
The idea is to find out
what your area of genius
is and perfect it.
And that is how intuition
will travel through to you.
So as a physician, the first
time I got an intuition was--
well, the definition
for intuition
is the capacity to
make a correct decision
with insufficient data.
And you would agree with
me that most every one
of us in our lives have to
make decisions every day
without enough information.
When I was on the
floor the first day
as a student doctor
in the hospital,
they throw a patient at you.
They just say, Mary
Brown, she's 42.
Go down to the emergency
room and pick her up.
So that's it.
You obviously don't
have enough information.
And there's no way to
get enough information.
You just got to go down there.
So being compulsive, I
have all these little books
in my white coat.
And I'm thinking,
OK, Mary Brown,
well, suppose she had
right upper abdominal pain.
Suppose moderately obese,
green stretch pants.
Suppose she's on her
way to a family reunion,
and she has this right
upper abdominal pain.
She thinks it's her gallbladder.
That's what's going on.
OK, suppose that was the case.
What would I do for her?
I look in my book, because
I'm going down the emergency
room in this elevator.
I say, OK, I would
have to run bilirubin.
I'd have to run a right
upper quadrant ultrasound.
I'd have to do all these tests.
And I, in a way, ahead of
time, using my intuition,
I order this
patient's treatment.
By the time I get down there, I
find out that this woman indeed
had right upper abdominal pain.
She thought it
was a gallbladder.
And she was on her way
to a family meeting.
I did this three times
in a row in the hospital
as a medical student.
And I realized, oh my
god, this is amazing.
This can help me treat
my patients better.
And it can also help me get
out of the hospital faster.
>> I think this
is quite amazing.
But is this just a gift
that maybe you have,
or do you feel that others
as well have this intuition?
And how do we tune into that?
>> Well, in that
specific situation,
I turned around and I
learned very quickly that all
the information in the
world couldn't help you.
And in fact, I looked
around and I figured out,
the people who looked
the best and did
the best in the
hospital were the ones
that were using your intuition.
The nurses, nurses have
an uncanny capacity
to let you know very subtly when
a patient was going to crump.
And if you were a
doctor and you wanted
to work with your nurses, you
would say to them, well, Mary,
the nurse, what's the weather
here on the unit tonight?
Well, I don't know.
It's not going to be good.
And she would tell me
ahead of time which
patients were going to crump.
And I learned that
other professions also
used intuition.
There have been
many studies that
suggest that specific
professions, nurses,
stockbrokers, businessmen,
the best people use intuition
to make the decisions.
>> What is a medical intuitive?
>> A medical intuitive is
a person who it's a special
branch of intuition.
So what they do is they
usually knowing only a person's
name and their age and
not seeing someone,
they can understand specific
emotional situations that are
going on in the person's life.
They can describe them.
As the way I'm a
medical intuitive,
I describe active
issues having to do
with what they do
for a living and how
that can impact their health.
I look at active issues around
relationships they're in
or any other part of their life.
And then I describe
their body from head
to toe, each organ for the
presence of health or disease.
And what I do is a
medical intuitive
is I help the client awaken
intuition in their life.
I help teach them that
specific signs and symptoms
in certain organs
in their body are
related to a specific emotional
situation in their life.
And nine times out of
10, the person will say,
I knew that anyway, but I
didn't want to listen to it.
And what I say, so you
knew it intuitively?
And they said, yes.
>> What are the things in your
life as you were a growing
young girl and growing up that
might have put you in touch
with this intuitive feeling?
Were you aware of
it during your life,
or did you have an
unusual childhood?
>> Well, I think that with
all of us having intuition,
how do we gain access to it?
I think all of
us, if we're cars,
we develop a dent somewhere.
And that makes us unique.
A dent can be an illness.
It can be an emotional tragedy.
It can be anything.
And that is an event through
which intuition can come to us.
Mine happened to be health.
And the dent happened
to be in my head.
I have a problem that I walk
around and I fall asleep.
And that's why they call
it awakening intuition,
from my point of view.
And so what would
happen is I would
be out for long amounts of time,
and I would, when I woke up,
have to intuit what went
on when I was asleep.
All of us have the capacity
from various events
in their life to
get more intuitive.
Mine just happened to be
from a hole in my head
from a sleep disorder.
>> You speak of a
hole in your head.
Is it literally a
hole in your head?
Is this your dent in your car
that you gave symbolically?
>> Well, actually, yeah.
And in fact, one of the
most interesting things
is they say the left brain
is the rational world.
>> Right.
>> And the right brain
is the intuitive world.
So you think that's
that cool stuff
that they talk about in Omega
or Common Boundary and all
that other stuff.
Well, the reality
is that's true.
Because when they get
a CAT scan of my head
to find out what was
underneath the hood,
they found out that my left
brain is like a little nubbin.
And my right brain is huge.
They call that in neuroanatomy
reversed symmetry.
So in fact, most of
us walking around
have the wiring for intuition.
But just due to
evolution, our left brain
is much bigger than
our right brain.
Mine is just the reverse.
So in fact, most of the time
when I'm walking around,
I'm in a right brain state.
And I can't get
out of it, which is
why probably I have a
more exaggerated capacity
for intuition.
But you see all of
us have right brains.
>> We do.
Yes, indeed.
>> You just moved
your left hand.
And you got a left foot,
then you got a right brain.
And so you have a capacity
to use it for intuition.
If your left brain
is bigger than you
at night, if your left brain
in your head is bigger,
then you probably have
a greater capacity
to get intuition through dreams.
So the idea is to
find out who you are,
what your specific
genius is, and then
find out how intuition comes to
you through your basic wiring.
And that's what I
did as a physician
and as a neuroscientist.
I tried to find
out how intuition
is wired in us through
disease and through health.
>> So what you're saying is that
we look for that dent of that,
would we call it a flaw perhaps
in our own physical body?
>> Well, you have a
beautiful purple suit on.
And I'm sure some
of your suits when
you come home, you
go, oh my god, there's
a snag in the fabric.
So then you look at the
label, and the label
says, if you find
an imperfection
in the fabric, that's just
part of the normal character
of the garment.
All of us have little snags.
>> But that snag is the
entry point to intuition.
>> That's exactly it.
>> And so do we try to heal
that, or do we realize that,
I mean, we don't want to get
rid of the very entry point.
But it is through
that broken place,
for example, that we
can bring intuition in.
>> Well, the word healing
is the operative word.
Because there's the curing
and then there's the healing.
I study with Chris Northrup
and I do research with her.
And she really taught
me the difference.
The way that I think
of it is you know when
they put those highways in?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> They got the big
rock in the road,
and they blast it through.
They put a hole there.
That's now an
imperfection in that rock,
but it's through which
information or the road
can travel through.
Through problems in our lives,
we blast through blockages.
Could be illness.
Could be a divorce.
Could be a death in our family.
And that's tragedy.
The idea is to keep
that area open.
Heal it.
But then understand what
gifts can travel through
through that road.
>> And is this like we could
liken this to the small voice
within in some ways?
>> I think, for some people,
it's the small voice within.
And then because we're
in our left brain
or in our very noisy world,
it's the soft voice within.
But since we got the VCR,
we got the CD player,
we're in the exercise.
Everything's whirring.
We're at work.
Computers going like this.
Or in the hospital and all
the machines are going.
That small voice,
you can't hear.
And the first time
you don't hear it,
then it taps you louder.
And then you don't
hear it anymore
because it's inconvenient.
You brush it off.
Then it's a hammer.
And if you don't
listen to it again,
then it becomes the
form of a truck.
>> Hold that thought, Mona Lisa.
This is Marilyn McGuire.
And you're watching
the Wisdom Channel.
We are here talking
to Mona Lisa Schulz.
Stay with us.
Welcome back.
I am Marilyn McGuire.
And you are watching
the Wisdom Channel.
We are talking today to Mona
Lisa Schulz, a medical doctor
who has just written a book
called "Awakening Intuition."
Mona Lisa, the things
you have been telling us
are quite fascinating.
These are things that have
been happening to you.
And at the same time,
you're telling us
that we are all
intuitive and that we
can tune into our intuition.
And you've given us ways
in which you've done that.
What are some tips on
discovering our own intuition,
some actual tips?
>> Well, the last part of
the book shows the intuition
network and how it's
distributed in you.
So if you have a left brain,
if you have a right brain,
if you have a body, you sleep
at night, each one of those
is a part of your
intuition network.
And the idea is to find
out what part of it
you best process intuition.
Dolly Parton said, find out who
you are and do it on purpose
and then, I guess, embellish it.
And the key is that all of us
have innate gifts in one area.
Some people are
left brain dominant.
Through my studies
in neuropsychology
and neuroanatomy, some people,
they're very detail oriented.
They're very language based.
Those are the ones that take
those courses in college where
they have all the books, and
they have all the papers.
These courses, I
avoided like the plague.
But these people are
very left brain dominant.
Their gifts, if that's
you, you're very symbolic.
Most of your information
for intuition
will come through your dreams.
So you'll get to go out and
buy all those dream books
and find out all
that symbols and find
that your unique intuition
language through your dreams.
But you'll like
that because you're
into books and reading
and all that stuff.
However, in contrast,
if you're someone
who's what I would
call a spaz intuitive,
who runs around a lot has
hyperactivity and attention
deficit disorder
kind of qualities,
you are what I would
call a spaz intuitive.
And that means is that
most of your intuition
come from your right
brain and your body.
So in fact, I'm
very much like that,
especially with my
family and my friends.
I will tend to act out
intuitively when something
is going on in the room.
So for example, two
people were at a table.
We're having dinner.
And I know they're
having an affair,
but no one else does, but
I kind of know intuitively.
I'll start playing with
a candle on the table.
And I'll start taking
the sugar cubes
and putting them over the
candle and then seeing
how close they can get.
And then they catch on fire.
And that's a symbol for the
fire of those people's passion
in their relationship.
And then by accident,
I'll get really,
because it's something going
on underneath the surface.
People who are spaz
intuitives, their body
acts out intuitively what's
going on in the situation.
And I was playing
with fire, and that's
what they were doing in
their affair with each one
of their mates at the table.
So if you have a
child who has that,
they might have particular
gifts in that they
might be able to
understand what's
going on through their
behavior and so will you.
Other people are
body intuitives.
A body intuitive is a person
that will feel in their body
somewhere when something
is going on intuitively.
Most of us have that, gut
responders, headaches.
And like in the middle
part of that book
is basically a manual for what
specific symptom or illness is
related to what your intuition
is trying to tell you.
So the idea is to find out
your unique gifts and talents
and what area of the
network is most developed
and work with that.
>> And you explain this with a
chart in the back of this book.
How is this being
the way you are
and the intuitive way that
you are affected relationships
in your life?
>> That's been a problem.
That's not been fun.
>> Well, there are
different types.
I mean, there are friends.
And there's family.
And then there are more
intimate relationships.
>> I guess the best way that you
can explain it is have you ever
seen the movie "City of Angels"?
>> No.
>> OK, the "City of Angels,"
these guys are dressed in black
and they're angels on Earth.
And they go into the
library, and they
can hear people's thoughts.
So when they walk
in the library,
all these people are
reading, and they
can hear all this buzzing.
That's the way it is for me.
I'm an auditory intuitive
and also a visual intuitive.
So I hear people's thoughts,
which is very hard.
This weekend, I'm at a
booksellers convention.
I'm going to go
into a convention.
And all the things that
you hear, the buzzing,
I hear double buzzing.
I hear what's going on in
their head at the same time.
This is particularly
problematic in relationships.
I work with friends and
we work with corporations.
If I sit at a table, and they
are telling her one thing,
and they're lying
to her, I will hear
what's going on in their head.
I hear two
soundtracks, the truth
and what's coming
out of their mouth.
And what's
problematic about this
is that I will blurt it out like
a right brained ADD intuitive.
I'll either spill something,
something will catch on fire,
or I will say,
they're lying to you.
Because it's absolutely
the most distracting thing.
And the only time
that it doesn't
happen is when someone's telling
the truth where what's going on
in their head and what's
coming out of their mouth
is the same track.
It's superimposed, and I only
hear one line of language.
Does that make sense?
>> Well, it makes sense.
Yes, it makes sense that
this is possible for you,
that you are gifted in some way.
I feel that a lot of
people have intuition,
and some do and
don't know they have.
But I wonder if we could
attain the level of,
I would say levels
of consciousness
that you seem to walk
around being able to hear
all these conversations.
I'm not sure that
I want to do that.
>> I will tell you how the
level is different for different
people.
Let me just tell you this.
Have you ever gone and
tried to buy a house,
and someone's saying, oh,
the roof is wonderful.
This roof will
last you 15 years.
You might not hear two
different soundtracks,
but your stomach is
starting to retch.
You don't know.
Guy looks nice.
He seems honest.
But why is your flesh crawling?
You have what we call the
positive flesh crawling sign.
OK?
So you might not
hear two tracks,
but you're a body intuitive.
You'll hear it in your body.
I guess the real question
is how to get someone
to perfect their intuition and
not put it in the place of,
she can do this.
I can't.
And I'll tell you a
story that hopefully
won't make your flesh crawl.
And that was this woman,
this lady calls me up.
She's doing a TV program.
And she says, the question
that I usually hear,
which is, can you do
a reading on the air?
And that misses the boat.
I've done it once,
and it's accurate,
but that's not the point.
The point is to how to
get you to understand
how intuition is wired in
you and do it on purpose.
So I said to her, no, if
I do a reading for you,
that won't be the point.
And I told her some other
readings that I had done.
Over the course of this
phone conversation,
her voice got more
hoarse and hoarse.
Her voice sounded like
this, very much in pain.
She sounded like
she was in agony.
And this conversation
was terminated by her,
and she said, I got
to get off the phone.
This is awful.
And so she got off the phone.
And I thought, wow,
what a wonderful thing.
Can't she just figure
out another way
of terminating it rather
than feigning this illness.
She tells me she's going to
call me back the next day.
The next day she calls me.
Her voice is completely normal.
And what does she tell me?
She tells me the
most amazing story.
She says, Mona Lisa, from
the moment I got on the phone
with you, my neck
starts hurting me.
It got tighter and tighter
and tighter and tighter.
And it was so painful
that it affected my voice.
And she says, I got
to tell you, when
I got off the phone
with you, it went away.
She said, I've never had
problems with my neck before.
So she said, I had
to think about this.
I get on the phone with you,
and my neck starts hurting.
I get off the phone with
you, and my neck goes away.
Do you have neck
problems, Mona Lisa?
And I said, do I
have neck problems?
And I said, see, well,
she's on the phone,
so can't see the scar.
But see this scar?
I've blown four
disks in my neck.
She went, oh my god.
And she said, I've never
felt anything like that.
I felt in my body what
was going on in yours.
And I said, and now you have
something for your show.
You're a body intuitive.
You experience in your body what
can go on in someone else's.
And I said, you're like a lot
of mothers who can experience
what's going on in
their kid's body,
or you're a lot like twins that
can experience what's going
on in their twin's.
Once she knew she could do
that, she actually came to Maine
and stayed way away
from me, I guess,
because she didn't
want to have neck pain.
But you see, the idea
is to find out how
you do that through practice.
There's ways of
practicing in the book.
There's various exercises.
But it is possible to do it.
You just have to take the
risk and not feel foolish.
>> Well, and these are like
the gut reactions or different
reactions in parts of our body.
Does this relate at all to the
receptor cells for thoughts,
the work of Candace Pert?
>> That's fabulous.
I read an article that was in
Intuition Magazine about her
because I heard about her work.
And I actually read a lot.
She talks about a
psychosomatic network.
What's fascinating is
exactly that two people who
work in completely
different areas
can come up with the
same information,
and that is the most
fascinating thing.
A lot of us work in
mind body medicine.
Joan Borysenko does her thing.
She works in Harvard.
I slice brains for a living.
Chris Northrup
works in the pelvis.
Caroline Miss works
with archetypes,
and so on and so on.
And what's fascinating
is that we can all
end up intersecting and
explaining the same phenomena
from a different point of view.
>> Through different
points of view.
>> And why that is so beautiful
from a scientific point of view
is the following.
It's wonderful to sit in a lab.
I'm a scientist.
I have all these
published papers.
It's wonderful to sit in a
lab and discover something.
That's fabulous.
You feel so great.
Then you go to the conference
and you present it.
And you publish the paper, and
you get something on your CV.
The best part is not that is
that someone else can then
reproduce it.
If no one else can
reproduce your data,
then you're messed up
because someone else
has to show you that that
phenomena also exists.
That Candace Pert can
work in a lab in NIH
and talk about
molecules of emotion,
and then I can go through
the literature for a decade
and show that how certain
emotions are laid down
in certain organs of the
body, I was euphoric.
I thought it was absolutely
fascinating because we
can footnote each other.
And that's how science works.
Everyone makes observations.
And then we find
a new phenomena.
In fact, that happened
with the AIDS virus.
Two people, two separate
maps worked on the AIDS virus
at the same time and
discovered it simultaneously.
What is that guy's name,
"New Science of Life"?
>> Right.
>> Rupert Sheldrake.
>> Talks about the
100 monkey theory.
And what is that?
Guy over in Guam, OK,
teaches a rat how to swim,
goes in circles.
All of a sudden, the rats in
China are swimming in circles.
It's almost like all these
wonderfully brilliant people
are working on the same
thing, and they all
discover it at once.
>> Mona Lisa, you're a
very fascinating person.
And the work you're doing
is certainly fascinating
and will help us all grow.
I am Marilyn McGuire.
And you have been watching
the Wisdom Channel.
We've been talking
to Dr. Mona Lisa
Schulz on "Awakening
Intuition," which
is the title of her new book.
Thank you for joining us.